DOCS-11819-mqtt3-connector-final-kt (#1611)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: mqtt 3/1.0.0/modules/ROOT/pages/mqtt3-connector-reference.adoc

= MQTT 3 Connector 1.0 Reference

> MQTT 3 Connector v1.0

Reviewer: Delete Line 3

> Anypoint Connector for MQTT 3 (MQTT 3 Connector) is an MQTT (Message Queuing Telemetry Transport) version 3.x protocol compliant MuleSoft extension. MQTT is a lightweight publish/subscribe messaging protocol designed for connecting remote devices with a small code footprint and minimal network bandwidth. MQTT today is used in a wide variety of industries, such as automotive, manufacturing, telecommunications, oil and gas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anypoint Connector for MQTT 3 (MQTT 3 Connector) is an MQTT (Message Queuing Telemetry Transport) v3.x protocol-compliant MuleSoft extension. MQTT is a lightweight publish/subscribe messaging protocol designed for connecting remote devices with a small code footprint and minimal network bandwidth. MQTT today is used in a wide variety of industries, such as automotive, manufacturing, telecommunications, and oil and gas.
```

> The connector consumes and produces MQTT messages and supports all MQTT v3.x functionalities including message retention, last will and testament messages, and persistent sessions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The connector consumes and produces MQTT messages and supports all MQTT v3.x functionalities including message retention, Last Will and Testament (LWT) messages, and persistent sessions.
```

* <<ConfigForm, MQTT 3 Form Connection>>
 | Connection types for this configuration. | | x
| Name a| String |  The identifier of this element used to reference it in other components |  | x
| Expiration Policy a| <<ExpirationPolicy>> |  Configures an expiration policy for the configuration. |  |
|===

==== Connection Types
[[Config_Connection]]
===== MQTT 3 URL Connection

Cached connection provider that creates MQTT connections. Enables you to specify a connection URL for the broker.

====== Parameters

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Name | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Client ID Generator a| One of:
* <<ClientIdRandomSuffixGenerator>>
* <<ClientIdCustomExpressionGenerator>> |  A Client ID generator that generates a Client ID to identify a connection to the MQTT broker. |  | x
| Username a| String |  Username to authenticate credentials to the MQTT broker. |  |
| Password a| String |  Password authenticate credentials to the MQTT broker. |  |
| URL a| String |  URL that represents the broker to connect to. |  |
| TLS Context a| <<Tls>> |  |  |
| Topic a| String |  Topic to publish the last will and testament message. |  |

> | Body a| String |  Content of the last will and testament message. |  |

Reviewer: We should just use LWT instead of last will and testament. You can S&R or just leave (because it's not that big a deal)

| QoS a| Enumeration, one of:

** AT_MOST_ONCE
** AT_LEAST_ONCE
** EXACTLY_ONCE | Quality of service (QoS) with which the last will and testament message is published. Defaults to AT_LEAST_ONCE. | AT_LEAST_ONCE |
| Is Retained a| Boolean | If set to `true`, the broker retains the last will and testament message. | `false` |

> | Connection Timeout a| Number |  The socket connection timeout value. This attribute works in tandem with `timeoutUnit`. In the case of multiple fail-over URLs provided, the timeout applies to each URL individually. |  30 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Connection Timeout a| Number |  The socket connection timeout value. This attribute works in tandem with `timeoutUnit`. If multiple fail-over URLs are provided, the timeout applies to each URL individually. |  30 |
```

| Timeout Unit a| Enumeration, one of:

** NANOSECONDS
** MICROSECONDS
** MILLISECONDS
** SECONDS
** MINUTES
** HOURS

> ** DAYS |  A `TimeUnit` which qualifies the `connectionTimeout` attribute. |  SECONDS |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** DAYS |  Unit of time for the *Connection Timeout* field.  |  SECONDS |
```

| Keep Alive Interval a| Number |  The amount of time that the connection between the client and broker is kept alive without any messages exchanged. If the keep-alive interval is 0, then the keep-alive mechanism is disabled. |  0 |
| Keep Alive Interval Unit a| Enumeration, one of:

** NANOSECONDS
** MICROSECONDS
** MILLISECONDS
** SECONDS
** MINUTES
** HOURS
** DAYS |  The unit of time that corresponds to the `keepAliveInterval` parameter. Defaults to SECONDS |  SECONDS |

> | Max In Flight a| Number |  The maximum amount of messages that can be unacknowledged at a given time. If you set the  parameter to 0, there can be unlimited in-flight messages.  |  10 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Max In Flight a| Number |  Maximum number of messages that can be unacknowledged at a given time. If you set the parameter to `0`, there can be unlimited in-flight messages.  |  10 |
```

| Password a| String |  Password to authenticate credentials to the MQTT broker. |  |
| Fail Over Servers a| Array of <<FailOverUrl>> |  The list of server URLs used to establish a connection to the broker. |  | x
| TLS Context a| <<Tls>> |  |  |
| Topic a| String | Topic to publish the last will and testament message. |  |
| Body a| String | Content of the last will and testament message. |  |
| QoS a| Enumeration, one of:

** AT_MOST_ONCE
** AT_LEAST_ONCE
** EXACTLY_ONCE |  Quality of service (QoS) with which the last will and testament message is published. Defaults to AT_LEAST_ONCE |  AT_LEAST_ONCE |
| Is Retained a| Boolean |  If set to `true`, the broker retains the last will and testament message. |  `false` |
| Connection Timeout a| Number |  The socket connection timeout value. This attribute works in tandem with `timeoutUnit`. In the case of multiple fail-over URLs provided, the timeout applies to each URL individually. |  30 |
| Timeout Unit a| Enumeration, one of:

** NANOSECONDS
** MICROSECONDS
** MILLISECONDS
** SECONDS
** MINUTES
** HOURS
** DAYS |  A `TimeUnit` which qualifies the `connectionTimeout` attribute. Defaults to SECONDS |  SECONDS |

> | Keep Alive Interval a| Number |  The amount of time that the connection between the client and broker is be kept alive without any messages exchanged. If the keep-alive interval is 0, then the keep-alive mechanism is disabled. |  0 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Keep Alive Interval a| Number |  The amount of time that the connection between the client and broker is kept alive without any messages being exchanged. If the keep-alive interval is `0`, then the keep-alive mechanism is disabled. |  0 |
```

| Keep Alive Interval Unit a| Enumeration, one of:

** NANOSECONDS
** MICROSECONDS
** MILLISECONDS
** SECONDS
** MINUTES
** HOURS
** DAYS |  The unit of time that corresponds to the `keepAliveInterval` parameter. Defaults to SECONDS |  SECONDS |

> | Max In Flight a| Number |  The maximum amount of messages that can be unacknowledged at a given time. If you set the  parameter to 0, there can be unlimited in-flight messages. |  10 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Max In Flight a| Number |  Maximum number of messages that can be unacknowledged at a given time. If you set the parameter to `0`, there can be unlimited in-flight messages. |  10 |
```

Reviewer: Is "unacknowledged" correct?

| Clean Session a| Boolean |  If set to `true`, the session is cleaned each time the client disconnects from the broker. Subscriptions are not saved and offline (QoS 1 and 2) messages for that client are lost. |  `true` |
| Enable File Persistence a| Boolean |  If set to `true`, creates a file-based persistent data store, used to store outbound and inbound messages while they are in flight, enabling delivery to the QoS specified. |  `false` |
| Data Store Path a| String |  The directory where the file-based persistent data store is created if `enableFilePersistence` is set to `true`. |   |
| Reconnection a| <<Reconnection>> |  When the application is deployed, a connectivity test is performed on all connectors. If set to `true`, deployment will fail if the test doesn't pass after exhausting the associated reconnection strategy. |  |
|===

> [[Config_Form]]

Reviewer: Add a line between 136 and 137. It probably doesn't matter. It just bugs me. haha

===== MQTT 3 Form Connection

> Cached connection provider that creates MQTT connections. Enables you to specify a protocol, host and port to establish a connection with the broker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cached connection provider that creates MQTT connections. Enables you to specify a protocol, host, and port to establish a connection with the broker.
```

====== Parameters

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Name | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Client ID Generator a| One of:
* <<ClientIdRandomSuffixGenerator>>
* <<ClientIdCustomExpressionGenerator>> |  A Client ID generator that generates a Client ID to identify a connection to the MQTT broker. |  | x
| Username a| String |  Username to authenticate credentials to the MQTT broker. |  |

> | Password a| String |  Password authenticate credentials to the MQTT broker. |  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Password a| String |  Password to authenticate credentials to the MQTT broker. |  |
```

| Protocol a| Enumeration, one of:

** TCP
** WS
** WSS
** SSL
** LOCAL |  Transport level protocol to use when connecting to the broker. |  TCP |
| URL a| String |  Broker's host to connect to. |  | x
| Port a| String |  Broker's port to connect to |  1883 |
| TLS Context a| <<Tls>> |  |  |
| Topic a| String | Topic to publish the last will and testament message. |  |
| Body a| String | Content of the last will and testament message. |  |
| QoS a| Enumeration, one of:

** AT_MOST_ONCE
** AT_LEAST_ONCE
** EXACTLY_ONCE |  Quality of service (QoS) with which the last will and testament message is published. Defaults to AT_LEAST_ONCE |  AT_LEAST_ONCE |
| Is Retained a| Boolean |  If set to `true`, the broker retains the last will and testament message. |  `false` |
| Connection Timeout a| Number |  The socket connection timeout value. This attribute works in tandem with `timeoutUnit`. In the case of multiple fail-over URLs provided, the timeout applies to each URL individually. |  30 |
| Timeout Unit a| Enumeration, one of:

** NANOSECONDS
** MICROSECONDS
** MILLISECONDS
** SECONDS
** MINUTES
** HOURS

> ** DAYS |  A `TimeUnit` which qualifies the `connectionTimeout` attribute. Defaults to SECONDS |  SECONDS |

Reviewer: You should fix all of these to be whatever we have in the reference spreadsheet.

> | Keep Alive Interval a| Number |  The amount of time that the connection between the client and broker is be kept alive without any messages exchanged. If the keep-alive interval is 0, then the keep-alive mechanism is disabled. |  0 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Keep Alive Interval a| Number |  The amount of time that the connection between the client and broker is kept alive without any messages being exchanged. If the keep-alive interval is `0`, then the keep-alive mechanism is disabled. |  0 |
```

Reviewer: Check all the Keep Alive Interval descriptions to fix. I'll stop commenting.

| Keep Alive Interval Unit a| Enumeration, one of:

** NANOSECONDS
** MICROSECONDS
** MILLISECONDS
** SECONDS
** MINUTES
** HOURS
** DAYS |  The unit of time that corresponds to the `keepAliveInterval` parameter. |  SECONDS |

> | Max In Flight a| Number |  The maximum amount of messages that can be unacknowledged at a given time. If you set the  parameter to 0, there can be unlimited in-flight messages. |  10 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Max In Flight a| Number |  The maximum number of messages that can be unacknowledged at a given time. If you set the parameter to `0`, there can be unlimited in-flight messages. |  10 |
```

Reviewer: Same with Max in Flight (Fix all occurrences)

|===

==== Associated Operations
* <<Publish>>

==== Associated Sources
* <<Listener>>

== Operations

[[Publish]]
=== Publish
`<mqtt3:publish>`

Operation that enables you to publish a single MQTT 3 message to a given exchange.

=== Parameters

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Name | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Configuration | String | Name of the configuration to use. | | x
| Topic a| String |  Topic in which to publish the message. |  | x
| Message a| Any |  Content of the message to publish. |  #[payload] |
| QoS a| Enumeration, one of:

** AT_MOST_ONCE
** AT_LEAST_ONCE
** EXACTLY_ONCE |  Quality of service (QoS) with which the message is published. |  AT_LEAST_ONCE |
| Is Retained a| Boolean |  Whether the broker retains the message. |  `false` |
| Config Ref a| ConfigurationProvider |  Name of the configuration to execute the component. |  | x
| Reconnection Strategy a| * <<Reconnect>>
* <<ReconnectForever>> |  A retry strategy in case of connectivity errors. |  |
|===

=== For Configurations

* <<Config>>

=== Throws

* MQTT3:CONNECTIVITY
+

> The client become disconnected from the broker while attempting to publish a message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The client became disconnected from the broker while attempting to publish a message.
```

* MQTT3:INVALID_TOPIC
+
The topic is invalid because, for example, the name is too short, too long, or contains invalid characters.

* MQTT3:PERSISTENCE
+
When publishing a message, an error occurred while reading or writing persistent data for reliable messaging.

* MQTT3:PUBLISH
+
An error occurred while attempting to publish a message.

* MQTT3:RETRY_EXHAUSTED
+
All reconnection attempts failed.

* MQTT3:WRITE_TIMEOUT
+
An error occurred when the client timed out waiting to write messages to the server.

== Sources

[[Listener]]
=== On New Message

`<mqtt3:listener>`

> Source that listens for new incoming messages for one or more topic filters. Each topic filter has a specific quality of service configured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Source that listens for new incoming messages for one or more topic filters. Each topic filter has a specific QoS configured.
```

=== Parameters

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Name | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Configuration | String | Name of the configuration to use. | | x
| Topics a| Array of <<Topic>> |  List of topics that the listener subscribes to. |  | x
| Config Ref a| ConfigurationProvider |  Name of the configuration to execute the component. |  | x
| Primary Node Only a| Boolean |  Determines whether to execute the source only on the primary node when running Mule instances in a cluster. |  |
| Redelivery Policy a| <<RedeliveryPolicy>> |  Defines a policy for processing the redelivery of the same message. |  |
| Reconnection Strategy a| * <<Reconnect>>
* <<ReconnectForever>> |  A retry strategy in case of connectivity errors. |  |
|===

=== Output

[%autowidth.spread]
|===
| *Type* a| Any
| *Attributes Type* a| <<Mqtt3MessageAttributes>>
|===

=== For Configurations

* <<Config>>

== Types

[[Tls]]

> === Tls

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== TLS
```

Configures TLS to provide secure communications for the Mule app.

[cols=".^20%,.^25%,.^30%,.^15%,.^10%", options="header"]
|======================
| Field | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Enabled Protocols a| String | Comma-separated list of protocols enabled for this context. |  |
| Enabled Cipher Suites a| String | Comma-separated list of cipher suites enabled for this context.. |  |
| Trust Store a| <<TrustStore>> |  |  |
| Key Store a| <<KeyStore>> |  |  |
| Revocation Check a| * <<StandardRevocationCheck>>
* <<CustomOcspResponder>>
* <<CrlFile>> |  |  |
|======================

[[TrustStore]]
=== Trust Store

Configures the truststore for TLS.

[cols=".^20%,.^25%,.^30%,.^15%,.^10%", options="header"]
|======================
| Field | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Path a| String | Path to the truststore. Mule resolves the path relative to the current classpath and file system, if possible. |  |
| Password a| String | Password used to protect the trust store. |  |

> | Type a| String | Type of store. |  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Type a| String | Type of truststore. |  |
```

| Algorithm a| String | Encryption algorithm that the trust store uses. |  |
| Insecure a| Boolean | If `true`, no certificate validations will be performed, rendering connections vulnerable to attacks. Use at your own risk. |  |
|======================

[[KeyStore]]
=== Key Store

Configures the keystore for the TLS protocol. The keystore you generate contains a private key and a public certificate.

[cols=".^20%,.^25%,.^30%,.^15%,.^10%", options="header"]
|======================
| Field | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Path a| String | Path to the keystore. Mule resolves the path relative to the current classpath and file system, if possible. |  |

> | Type a| String | Type of store. |  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Type a| String | Type of keystore. |  |
```

| Alias a| String | Alias of the key to use when the keystore contains multiple private keys. By default, Mule uses the first key in the file. |  |
| Key Password a| String | Password used to protect the private key. |  |
| Password a| String | Password used to protect the keystore. |  |
| Algorithm a| String | Encryption algorithm that the keystore uses. |  |
|======================

[[StandardRevocationCheck]]
=== Standard Revocation Check

Configures standard revocation checks for TLS certificates.

[cols=".^20%,.^25%,.^30%,.^15%,.^10%", options="header"]
|======================
| Field | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Only End Entities a| Boolean | Verify the last element of the certificate chain only. |  |
| Prefer Crls a| Boolean | Try CRL instead of OCSP first. |  |
| No Fallback a| Boolean | Do not use the secondary checking method, which is the method not specified in the Prefer Crls field. |  |
| Soft Fail a| Boolean | Avoid verification failure when the revocation server cannot be reached or is busy. |  |
|======================

[[CustomOcspResponder]]

> === Custom Ocsp Responder

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Custom OCSP Responder
```

Configures a custom OCSP responder for certification revocation checks.

[cols=".^20%,.^25%,.^30%,.^15%,.^10%", options="header"]
|======================
| Field | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Url a| String | URL of the OCSP responder. |  |
| Cert Alias a| String | Alias of the signing certificate for the OCSP response. If specified, the alias must be in the truststore. |  |
|======================

[[CrlFile]]

> === Crl File

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== CRL File
```
